Hello and welcome back to the course on databases and to learn about cleaning up our joints.
So as you can see here we've got quite a large table which resulted from our complex joint where we
join three tables together we've got the Petz table the procedures history table and the procedures
details table.
And as you can see each one of these tables isn't that large.
Only five so six columns here and and four columns in each one of these.
But because of the number of tables the resulting table is quite big.
And if we if the original tables were even greater in terms of the number of columns than the resulting
table would be even bigger.
And so it's important to learn and know how to keep your joints at a very lean representation so that
you're only dealing with information that you need to deal if you actually need for analysis because
that will help you keep your leg will help you keep everything more tidy.
And and also help you navigate your resulting tables faster.
So let's go ahead and create a new section we're going to talk about cleaning up your joints.
So we're going to actually copy this code and we're going to learn first of all we're going to look
at what we can remove what can we trim down.
Well the first thing is you can always trim and unjoin is the column that you are joining on.
So as you can see we're drawing on ID Cosby parodies so there's parody and there's parody and basically
these two columns by default are always going to be equal so always the values in each one of the rows
for these four and you know the values in each of these columns is going to be the same always just
because of the way we created disjoined because if if the value is not the same it that call that roll
wouldn't be in this joint because it would deny this condition which were specified for the and so basically
always these two are equal and therefore you can just miss one of them except for very rare circumstances
where for some reason you need both of them in your resulting tables.
You specifically need them if you don't then it's very straightforward to just get rid of one of them.
And in our case we have a complex join and therefore we're joining on actually three pairs of converse
of pet ID procedure type and procedure subclause So there is pet ID then this procedure type these two
and this procedure Subba called these two.
So in total we can get rid of the recall.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to ask you all what you need to do is you need to specify if you don't want to select all
the columns you need to specify the ones that you exactly want to sign.
So we're going to start with a a dot pet I.D. then we're going to say here a dog at lame and because
the name is a code key word might as well just put it in square brackets a dot kind.
So we're just going to specify all of them except for the ones we agreed to exclude H.
A Daut on the ID that we've done so now we're going to go into B but we won't say pet ID because we
already have pets Heidi.
We're going to move on to procedure and date the dots procedure.
Time and the door it's procedure support
sub code.
OK.
And then we're going to move on to see.
So here we don't want a procedure type we don't want procedure to have a subgoal because we're to have
them with just one description and price so let's go see Daut description.
This is also code words.
Let's put it that and see Dot price.
All right.
So there we go.
So now if we're on this joint you will see that already we have fewer columns and it looks a bit near.
All right well sometimes for depending on the purpose of this join you might not need other information.
For instance we might not need the name is going to come in these out the name of the pet kind with
its dog cat or parrot the gender and the age.
So if you don't need those columns just common demat or remove them and there you go so it's even neater
now even tighter.
And again depending on the reason for the joint or the purpose of the analysis you might not need other
columns Well so for instance we might not even need the ID itself.
We might not need a procedure date type sub code or description.
So for instance let's say we want to invoice owners of the pets.
We only need the owner ID and the price.
Sometimes of course you would include more information on in.
But for simplicity's sake let's say we just need the owner ID and the price from this resulting table
and if we run this then we've got the owner idea and price.
And this is where it gets interesting.
Why is that.
Well because we've got owner idea which comes from Table A and price which comes from Table C and we
don't actually have anything that comes from table B.
So you can see we've got to Table B here the procedures history and we've already commented everything
out from table be so these columns are not part of the display result.
Nevertheless there is no way that we could get from owner to price.
We followed the intermediary table B which tells us the history of the procedures.
So in reality we have what we have here is we've got this ghost type of table in between which we don't
see in the displayed result at old so represented it in any way but it is crucial for this complex joint
to operate correctly.
Right.
So I find that quite interesting.
And yeah so that's how this resolved works.
And it's also demonstrates that you don't actually have to have columns of old tables in the output.
What it demonstrate demonstrates is that this is separate to this.
So first this joins are performed then.
If you had in you where clauses they would be applied and then on either select Saipan would run.
So even if you Scilla if you even if you select nothing from the results right and if you comment out
everything and then just select the know for instance or an empty call.
This joint is still going to occur in the background is going to take a processing power and time.
So yeah it's it's an interesting thing to observe that you don't really have to have columns from all
of the tables in your final output.
So there we go that's how we conduct a complex joint and that's how we also clean up our joints.
It's an important habit to develop really a search.
It's not really a sophisticated skill clean up but it's a habit that you should have or if it's good
is a good idea to develop because it will help you in your analysis and also help other people fully
analysys better because your code and your results will be more sinked.
All right so I hope you enjoyed this tural and I'll see you next time.
Until then I'd be analyzing.